README.md, before:

# RoamJS Extension Base

Stock base for [RoamJS](https://roamjs.com) Roam Research extensions. **Fork this repo** to start a new extension.

## What's included

- **roamjs-components** — shared utilities, DOM helpers, queries, writes, and UI components
- **Samepage build** — `samepage build` produces the Roam Depot–ready bundle
- **Settings panel** — example `extensionAPI.settings.panel.create` with an Enable switch
- **TypeScript** — tsconfig extending `@samepage/scripts`
- **CI** — GitHub Actions to build on push/PR (uses RoamJS secrets for publish)

## After forking

1. **Rename the repo** and update `package.json`:
   - `name`: your extension slug (e.g. `my-extension`)
   - `description`: one line describing the extension

2. **Implement in `src/index.ts`**:
   - Keep or replace the settings panel
   - Add your logic using `roamjs-components` (e.g. `createHTMLObserver`, `createBlock`, `renderToast`)
   - Return `{ unload }` to clean up on unload

3. **Optional**: Add React components under `src/components/` (see [autocomplete](https://github.com/RoamJS/autocomplete), [giphy](https://github.com/RoamJS/giphy) for examples).

4. **Secrets (for publish)** — in the forked repo, configure:
   - `ROAMJS_RELEASE_TOKEN`, `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`
   - `AWS_REGION`, `ROAMJS_PROXY` (vars)

## Scripts

- `npm start` — samepage dev (local development)
- `npm run build:roam` — build for Roam (dry run; CI runs `npx samepage build`)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Update README.md to introduce Sticky Notes feature, detailing usage, functionality, and design principles

README.md, after:

<a href="https://roamjs.com/">
    <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/138642184" alt="RoamJS Logo" title="RoamJS" align="right" height="60" />
</a>

# Sticky Notes

**Quick, ephemeral notes that float on top of your Roam Research graph.** Jot something down, drag it wherever you want, and when you're done—remove it. No clutter, no permanent page unless you want one.

[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/RoamJS/sticky-notes)

## What are Sticky Notes?

Sticky Notes are lightweight notes that sit in a layer above your Roam graph. They're meant for **quick, temporary capture**: ideas you're playing with, reminders for the current session, or scratch space while you work. When you delete a sticky note, it's gone—the block is removed from your graph. No archive, no cleanup later.

## Features

- **Full Roam inside every note** — Each sticky is a real Roam block. Use **tags** `#like-this`, **images**, **embeds**, **links**, and everything else you normally do in Roam.
- **Drag anywhere** — Grab the note by the header bar and drag it anywhere on your screen. Position and size are remembered for your session.
- **Resize** — Drag the corner or edge of a note to make it bigger or smaller.
- **Minimize** — Collapse a note to just its title bar when you want it out of the way but still visible.
- **Ephemeral by design** — Delete a note with the ✕ button and the block is removed from Roam. Perfect for throwaway thoughts and temporary scratch space.

## How to use

1. **Create a sticky note** — Open the command palette (`Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + P`), run **"Sticky Notes: Create Sticky Note"**, and a new note appears.
2. **Move it** — Click and drag the colored header bar to place the note wherever you like.
3. **Edit** — Type in the note as you would in any Roam block. Use `#tags`, `/commands`, images, and links.
4. **Remove it** — Click the **✕** on the note when you're done. The note and its content are deleted from your graph.

Sticky notes are stored under a single Roam page (`roam/js/sticky-note`) so they stay in your graph while they exist, but the extension is built so you can treat them as disposable: create, use, delete.
